# internet-access-predictor
This is a project conducted for FII's NexHax competition (NX2). In this contest, I was given the goal to build an AI tool that addressed problems related to the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (or SDGs). 
Through [data collected on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/babyoda/internet-access-oecd) by user "babyoda", I analyzed internet accessibility trend from 25 countries from 2005-2020. 
# Summary
Utilizing Python's various libraries, I cleaned and preprocessed the dataset so it was ready for implementation. As for the model itself, I utilized a Long short-term memory (LSTM) deep learning algorithm. This is a type of neural network that seeks to address the vanishing/exploding gradient issue present in traditional Recurrent Neural Networks. This process is achieved through the LSTM's input, forget, and output gates, which keeps, hides, and outputs data throughout the network's layers. Ultimately, I chose to utilize two lstm layers, with linear models and ReLU as activation functions. Predictions were tracked through training and testing loss, using graphing libraries to visualize the changes the model made over time. 
# Relation to UN Goals
The rise of the internet in the 21st century has played a transformative role in the world's connectedness and ability to transmit information. The United Nations' ninth SDG states the importance of building resilient infrastructure, sustaining growth through innovation and resilience. These days, a nation's social and economic infrastructure is often tied back to its ability to share and communicate with itself and other parts of the world. Internet access is thus a crucial aspect of promoting a country's access to information, incentivizing the creation of new companies and jobs. For every new individual that's online, potential unlocks for them to seek opportunities in education, increase career earnings, and improve household living. Additionally, the issue of the digital divide is alleviated through equal opportunity to online services. 

With my AI tool, I seek to give organizations the means to predict future trends in internet access through past data. This way, they can better anticipate when and where to allocate computing technology, internet resources, and community development initiatives. This is moreso the case in lesser developed countries, where citizens would likely benefit more from internet access than others. 
# Conclusions
Through multiple rounds of training, the model's predictions rapidly improved to minimize the loss between its predicted value and the actual value. Testing data loss, while decreased, still were more than desired. In the future, a larger dataset would likely be more helpful for the model to avoid overfitting. Data could thus be collected on a monthly basis rather than a yearly basis to increase the precision of the results. To better compare areas, data could also be compared between a country's regions/states rather than countries as a whole. This could help local organization decide where to allocate resources on a smaller scale. 
